---
layout: post
title: "Looking for a new phone"
date: 2025-12-03 00:00:00 -0300
categories: phone
---

For context, I am using the good old Poco F3. It's time to replace it, the battery doesn't last and I have to charge it 2 to 3 times a day.

I switched to iOS for a period of time, maybe 3 months? and didn't like the experience. The keyboard is unbeareable. How can people live like that? Also everything is so slow, the animations could be a lot faster or at least they could provide a toggle to make them faster.

I chose the iPhone 15 Pro Max to make content. I didn't record much. And was it worth it? No. The camera was great, but everything else sucked.

Now I'm considering something cheaper with Android.

- Pixels: Why the fuck are they 2x the price here? is it due to tariffs? No, thanks. Their CPUs aren't worth the price. I would love to install GrapheneOS though... Maybe someday.

- Samsung: when you buy an iPhone you know you're a buying the brand. You can't say that when you buy a Samsung phone from the A series. Or anything below the S series. Feels stupid.

- Xiaomi/Poco: Sweet home? not really. Why would they make it increasingly hard to unlock the bootloader? Make an account, apply for the quota in the Xiaomi Community App, which seems to be 100% luck. They have the greatest hardware though. and 5500+ mAh batteries, which is nice.

So I am considering a Poco X7 Pro, which is a Poco F7 without the metallic frame, a Poco F7 with that 6500 mAh battery and the good snapdragon which may work better for ported apps, and a Xiaomi 15T Pro, which it's like a middleground between power and camera specs, and more expensive.

There are other brands with phones in this price range I didn't even bother to look at their specs. They don't get recommended by anyone? They are probably not good enough. (Motorola, Oppo, OnePlus Nord).

I will just spin the wheel and buy whatever it lands on.